---
layout: default
title: Required Readings Main
---

# Required Readings for CS6750 Spring 2022

- Source
  - <span id="menu-item-47">[Home](https://omscs6750.gatech.edu/)</span>
  - <span id="menu-item-1823">[Current
    Semester](https://omscs6750.gatech.edu/spring-2022/)</span>

# Required Reading List (Spring 2022)

This class has two reading lists: a list of required readings, and a
list of recommended readings. The required readings will be useful to
your assignments and projects, and will also be tested more explicitly
on the two course tests. The recommended readings are more generally
foundational books, papers, and courses on HCI in general.

## Required Reading List

On average, you can expect to spend 1 to 2 hours reading per week. The
topics of these papers fall into two categories: some are thorough,
retrospective overviews of decades of HCI research; some are
foundational, seminal works in the field of HCI; and some are
cutting-edge research from the most recent HCI-related conferences and
journals.

The information contained in these readings will be useful as you
complete your assignments and projects, but it will also be tested
explicitly on the course tests. Ten questions on each test will be based
on these readings. From the perspective of the test, your emphasis in
reading these papers should be in getting a sufficient understanding of
the material to answer high-level questions about the paper, as well as
to be able to find answers quickly for more specific questions.

Note that the weeks in this list represent the week of content most
relevant to the listed readings. However, we know that there will be
weeks when you are busier than others, and you may not be able to
complete a weekâ€™s readings during that particular week. The only
assessments dependent on having completed these readings are the tests,
so you need only worry about completing the readings by the date of the
next test.

We recommend reading [How to Read an Academic
Paper](http://omscs6460.gatech.edu/research-guide/how-to-read-an-academic-paper/)
from CS6460 to better understand how to fit some of these readings into
our estimated 1-2 hours per week.

## [Test 1 Notes: Required Readings](test-1.md)

## [Test 2 Notes: Required Readings](test-2.md)
